proxmox/README.md, before:

# Proxmox LXC Install Script

Install the Discord Soundboard as an LXC container on your Proxmox host in **one run**.

**Repo:** https://github.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard

**Standalone:** This installer does **not** use or depend on [community-scripts/ProxmoxVE](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE). All logic lives in this repo: a **host script** (`install-discord-soundboard.sh`) and a **container-side script** (`install/discord-soundboard-install.sh`) that runs inside the LXC.

## Prerequisites

- Proxmox VE host with a Debian 12 or Ubuntu 22.04/24.04 template.
- If you don't have one: **Datacenter → local (storage) → CT Templates** → “Templates” → download e.g. `debian-12-standard` or `ubuntu-24.04-standard`.

## One-line install (single run)

Run once; the script creates the container, sets a root password, starts it, and installs the app. **No need to start the LXC or run the script again.**

Uses the **next free container ID** (from `pvesh get /cluster/nextid` or 100, 101, …) unless you set `CTID`:

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)"
```

At the end you get the Web UI URL, root password for the new CT, and update/backup commands.

With options (e.g. fixed CTID or static IP):

```bash
CTID=201 IP="192.168.1.201/24" GW="192.168.1.1" bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)"
```

## One-line update (from host)

Pulls latest code and restarts the app. **Your `.env` and `sounds/` are not touched.** Requires `CTID` (the script does not remember which CT you used):

```bash
CTID=200 bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)" update
```

Or with the script locally: `CTID=200 ./install-discord-soundboard.sh update`

---

## Manual / clone-based install

1. Copy `install-discord-soundboard.sh` to your Proxmox host (or clone the repo there).
2. Run install once (default GIT_URL is `https://github.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard.git`):

   ```bash
   chmod +x install-discord-soundboard.sh
   ./install-discord-soundboard.sh
   ```

   The script will use the next free container ID, create the CT, set a random root password, start it, and install the app. At the end it prints the Web UI URL and root password.

   To force a specific CTID or static IP: `CTID=200 IP="192.168.1.200/24" GW="192.168.1.1" ./install-discord-soundboard.sh`

3. Edit `.env` with your Discord bot token and passwords (see After install).
4. Open the Web UI at the printed URL (e.g. `http://<container-ip>:3000`) and log in.

## Options

| Env var      | Default              | Description           |
|-------------|----------------------|------------------------|
| `CTID`      | next free ID         | Container ID (optional; script uses pvesh /cluster/nextid or 100+) |
| `HOSTNAME`  | discord-soundboard   | Container hostname    |
| `MEMORY`    | 512                  | RAM (MB)               |
| `CORES`     | 1                    | CPU cores              |
| `DISK`      | 8                    | Root disk (GB)         |
| `STORAGE`   | local-lvm            | Storage name           |
| `BRIDGE`    | vmbr0                | Bridge                 |
| `GIT_URL`   | https://github.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard.git | Git clone URL |
| `IP`        | (DHCP)               | Optional static IP     |
| `GW`        | (none)               | Optional gateway       |

Example with custom CTID and static IP:

```bash
export GIT_URL="https://github.com/you/discord-soundboard.git"
export CTID=201
export IP="192.168.1.201/24"
export GW="192.168.1.1"
./install-discord-soundboard.sh install
```

## Update (after code changes)

Updates **code only**; `.env` and `sounds/` (your files, folders, names, settings) are kept.

**From the Proxmox host** (set CTID to your container):

```bash
CTID=200 ./install-discord-soundboard.sh update
```

Or one-liner:

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)" update
```

**From inside the LXC console** (after `pct enter 200` or via SSH into the container):

```bash
update
```

Or explicitly: `cd /opt/discord-soundboard && ./scripts/update.sh`

## Backup and restore

Full export/import of `.env`, `sounds/` (all audio files, `sounds.json` with names, folders, order).

**Backup (inside container):**

```bash
pct exec 200 -- bash -c 'cd /opt/discord-soundboard && ./scripts/backup.sh'
# Creates e.g. /opt/discord-soundboard/discord-soundboard-backup-20260227-123456.tar.gz
```

Copy backup off the container:

```bash
pct pull 200 /opt/discord-soundboard/discord-soundboard-backup-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz ./
```

**Restore:** copy tarball into container, then restore:

```bash
pct push 200 ./discord-soundboard-backup-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz /opt/discord-soundboard/
pct exec 200 -- bash -c 'cd /opt/discord-soundboard && ./scripts/restore.sh /opt/discord-soundboard/discord-soundboard-backup-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz'
```

## After install

- **Edit .env (token, passwords):**  
  `pct exec 200 -- nano /opt/discord-soundboard/.env`  
  Set `DISCORD_TOKEN` (from [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)), `ADMIN_PASSWORD`, `USER_PASSWORD`, and optionally `SESSION_SECRET`. Then: `pct exec 200 -- systemctl restart discord-soundboard`

- **Logs:**  
  `pct exec 200 -- journalctl -u discord-soundboard -f`

- **Sounds:**  
  Upload via the Web UI; files and metadata live under `/opt/discord-soundboard/sounds/`. Back them up with `./scripts/backup.sh` (see Backup and restore above).

- **Guest access:** Superadmins can enable guest mode in the Web UI (Guest Access card). Guests play without login (7s max, 30s cooldown), are identified by IP, and can be blocked. History and blocked IPs are stored in `guest.json`.

## Troubleshooting

**"No IP on eth0" / eth0 DOWN / DNS fails:** The container needs `ip=dhcp` (or static IP) in its network config. If you're resuming a failed install on an existing container that was created before this fix, destroy it and run the installer again:

```bash
pct stop 109
pct destroy 109
# Then re-run the install script
```

**DHCP not working:** Ensure your bridge (default `vmbr0`) has access to a DHCP server. For static IP: `IP="192.168.1.200/24" GW="192.168.1.1" ./install-discord-soundboard.sh`

Commit message:

Enhance data management and backup processes in Discord Soundboard. Added data persistence by bind-mounting the data directory on the Proxmox host, ensuring settings survive container updates. Updated installation script to preserve existing data during app cloning, and modified backup and restore scripts to include the new data directory, improving overall data handling and user experience.

proxmox/README.md, after:

# Proxmox LXC Install Script

Install the Discord Soundboard as an LXC container on your Proxmox host in **one run**.

**Repo:** https://github.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard

**Standalone:** This installer does **not** use or depend on [community-scripts/ProxmoxVE](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE). All logic lives in this repo: a **host script** (`install-discord-soundboard.sh`) and a **container-side script** (`install/discord-soundboard-install.sh`) that runs inside the LXC.

## Prerequisites

- Proxmox VE host with a Debian 12 or Ubuntu 22.04/24.04 template.
- If you don't have one: **Datacenter → local (storage) → CT Templates** → “Templates” → download e.g. `debian-12-standard` or `ubuntu-24.04-standard`.

## One-line install (single run)

Run once; the script creates the container, sets a root password, starts it, and installs the app. **No need to start the LXC or run the script again.**

Uses the **next free container ID** (from `pvesh get /cluster/nextid` or 100, 101, …) unless you set `CTID`:

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)"
```

At the end you get the Web UI URL, root password for the new CT, and update/backup commands.

With options (e.g. fixed CTID or static IP):

```bash
CTID=201 IP="192.168.1.201/24" GW="192.168.1.1" bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)"
```

## One-line update (from host)

Pulls latest code and restarts the app. **Your `.env` and `sounds/` are not touched.** Requires `CTID` (the script does not remember which CT you used):

```bash
CTID=200 bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)" update
```

Or with the script locally: `CTID=200 ./install-discord-soundboard.sh update`

---

## Manual / clone-based install

1. Copy `install-discord-soundboard.sh` to your Proxmox host (or clone the repo there).
2. Run install once (default GIT_URL is `https://github.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard.git`):

   ```bash
   chmod +x install-discord-soundboard.sh
   ./install-discord-soundboard.sh
   ```

   The script will use the next free container ID, create the CT, set a random root password, start it, and install the app. At the end it prints the Web UI URL and root password.

   To force a specific CTID or static IP: `CTID=200 IP="192.168.1.200/24" GW="192.168.1.1" ./install-discord-soundboard.sh`

3. Edit `.env` with your Discord bot token and passwords (see After install).
4. Open the Web UI at the printed URL (e.g. `http://<container-ip>:3000`) and log in.

## Options

| Env var      | Default              | Description           |
|-------------|----------------------|------------------------|
| `CTID`      | next free ID         | Container ID (optional; script uses pvesh /cluster/nextid or 100+) |
| `HOSTNAME`  | discord-soundboard   | Container hostname    |
| `MEMORY`    | 512                  | RAM (MB)               |
| `CORES`     | 1                    | CPU cores              |
| `DISK`      | 8                    | Root disk (GB)         |
| `STORAGE`   | local-lvm            | Storage name           |
| `BRIDGE`    | vmbr0                | Bridge                 |
| `GIT_URL`   | https://github.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard.git | Git clone URL |
| `IP`        | (DHCP)               | Optional static IP     |
| `GW`        | (none)               | Optional gateway       |

Example with custom CTID and static IP:

```bash
export GIT_URL="https://github.com/you/discord-soundboard.git"
export CTID=201
export IP="192.168.1.201/24"
export GW="192.168.1.1"
./install-discord-soundboard.sh install
```

## Update (after code changes)

Updates **code only**; `.env` and `sounds/` (your files, folders, names, settings) are kept.

**From the Proxmox host** (set CTID to your container):

```bash
CTID=200 ./install-discord-soundboard.sh update
```

Or one-liner:

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smartpbx/discord-soundboard/main/proxmox/install-discord-soundboard.sh)" update
```

**From inside the LXC console** (after `pct enter 200` or via SSH into the container):

```bash
update
```

Or explicitly: `cd /opt/discord-soundboard && ./scripts/update.sh`

## Backup and restore

Full export/import of `.env`, `sounds/` (all audio files, `sounds.json` with names, folders, order).

**Backup (inside container):**

```bash
pct exec 200 -- bash -c 'cd /opt/discord-soundboard && ./scripts/backup.sh'
# Creates e.g. /opt/discord-soundboard/discord-soundboard-backup-20260227-123456.tar.gz
```

Copy backup off the container:

```bash
pct pull 200 /opt/discord-soundboard/discord-soundboard-backup-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz ./
```

**Restore:** copy tarball into container, then restore:

```bash
pct push 200 ./discord-soundboard-backup-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz /opt/discord-soundboard/
pct exec 200 -- bash -c 'cd /opt/discord-soundboard && ./scripts/restore.sh /opt/discord-soundboard/discord-soundboard-backup-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz'
```

## After install

- **Edit .env (token, passwords):**  
  `pct exec 200 -- nano /opt/discord-soundboard/.env`  
  Set `DISCORD_TOKEN` (from [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)), `ADMIN_PASSWORD`, `USER_PASSWORD`, and optionally `SESSION_SECRET`. Then: `pct exec 200 -- systemctl restart discord-soundboard`

- **Logs:**  
  `pct exec 200 -- journalctl -u discord-soundboard -f`

- **Sounds:**  
  Upload via the Web UI; files and metadata live under `/opt/discord-soundboard/sounds/`. Back them up with `./scripts/backup.sh` (see Backup and restore above).

- **Data persistence (volume, channel, guest settings):**  
  The installer bind-mounts `data/` to `/var/lib/discord-soundboard-data/<CTID>` on the Proxmox host. This survives container restarts and updates. If you created the container before this was added, add the mount manually: stop the CT, add `mp0: /var/lib/discord-soundboard-data/<CTID>,mp=/opt/discord-soundboard/data` to `/etc/pve/lxc/<CTID>.conf`, create the host dir with `mkdir -p /var/lib/discord-soundboard-data/<CTID>`, then start the CT.

- **Guest access:** Superadmins can enable guest mode in the Web UI (Guest Access card). Guests play without login (7s max, 30s cooldown), are identified by IP, and can be blocked. History and blocked IPs are stored in `guest.json`.

## Adding data mount to an existing container

If you installed before the data bind-mount was added, volume and channel settings won't persist across updates. To fix:

1. **Stop the container:** `pct stop <CTID>`
2. **Create the host directory:** `mkdir -p /var/lib/discord-soundboard-data/<CTID>`
3. **Copy existing data** (if any) from the container into that directory:
   ```bash
   pct start <CTID>
   pct exec <CTID> -- sh -c 'tar czf - -C /opt/discord-soundboard data 2>/dev/null' | tar xzf - -C /var/lib/discord-soundboard-data/<CTID> --strip-components=1
   pct stop <CTID>
   ```
   Or if `data/` is empty or doesn't exist yet, skip this step.
4. **Add the mount** to `/etc/pve/lxc/<CTID>.conf`:
   ```
   mp0: /var/lib/discord-soundboard-data/<CTID>,mp=/opt/discord-soundboard/data
   ```
5. **Start the container:** `pct start <CTID>`

After this, volume, channel, guest settings, and pending uploads will persist across updates and container restarts.

## Troubleshooting

**"No IP on eth0" / eth0 DOWN / DNS fails:** The container needs `ip=dhcp` (or static IP) in its network config. If you're resuming a failed install on an existing container that was created before this fix, destroy it and run the installer again:

```bash
pct stop 109
pct destroy 109
# Then re-run the install script
```

**DHCP not working:** Ensure your bridge (default `vmbr0`) has access to a DHCP server. For static IP: `IP="192.168.1.200/24" GW="192.168.1.1" ./install-discord-soundboard.sh`
